With its long list of features, zippy performance, and syncing of data across other devices, Google Maps is a must-have application for anyone running Android.:::Google Maps
Google Duo is Google's answer to Apple's FaceTime, and the company swears that the video-calling app is totally different than Hangouts.:::Google Dou
Duo is Google's answer to Apple's FaceTime, and the company swears that the video-calling app is totally different than Hangouts.:::Dou
Apple Music has a lot of potential, but its iCloud Music Library bugs and confusing interface keep it from edging out Spotify for now.:::Apple Music
Pokemon Go has taken over your phone, the internet and our lives. Here's everything (and we mean everything) you need to know about the hit game.:::Pokemon Go
For anyone looking for more reliable traffic data than Apple's and Google's stock maps applications, Waze is definitely worth a download.:::Waze
For anyone looking for more reliable traffic data than Apple's and Google's stock maps applications, Waze is definitely worth a download.:::Waze Social GPS Maps & Traffic
Manything can't match the video quality and options of some traditional Wi-Fi cameras, but there's no easier way for iOS users to experiment with DIY home security.:::Manything
With audio and video calls and more features than most messaging services, Viber is the best option, but only if you can convince your friends to use it.:::Viber
The free Presence app is a great way to experiment with home security -- just don't let its prominently-featured online store trick you into spending hundreds on accessories.:::Presence
It's so intuitive and simple that you could use the Drivemode app for Android while blindfolded, but don't try that while driving.:::Drivemode Driving Interface
With a little practice, Workflow will let you speed up repetitive tasks or carry out complex actions, all with the touch of a button.:::Workflow
With a streaming library that won't fill up your iPhone storage in the free version, along with excellent music discovery options and ad-free radio with All Access, Google Play Music is a great option for audiophiles.:::Google Play Music
Check out Fyuse if you want a new way to capture images that are a mixture of a photo, video and GIF.:::Fyuse
Though it has some issues, Celestial is worthwhile for its relaxing, ambient sounds:::Celestial
ReTXT gives you all the standard messaging features you're used to, but is worth getting for the added security and the ability to correct or delete sent messages.:::reTXT
Stellar performance and an intuitive layout make WPS Office a great choice for mobile editing.:::WPS Office
Apple has announced its own app that provides the same kind of news aggregation service as the popular Flipboard app.:::Apple News
Magic Duels' tutorial mode is among the best ways to learn to play Magic, but interface problems and poor cross-device support mean the average player should look elsewhere for their fix.:::Magic Duels
When viewing a location, Google Maps lets you activate add-on layers for traffic, transit lines, satellite images, and bicycle routes, all of which are useful. However, dedicated Maps users will notice that a few layers are now missing, including those for Terrain, Wikipedia, Latitude, and My Maps.:::Google Maps
By now, we're probably all familiar with the power of Google search. Within Maps, whether you're searching for a specific address or a general term like "pizza," all you have to do is type it into the new floating search box and watch as Google tries to autocomplete and figure out what you're looking for.:::Google Maps
Whatever your take on the social network of record, its messaging app is without equal. You don't need a phone number to use Facebook Messenger, you can use it on any device without the need for your phone to be present as it must with WhatsApp. It works on every platform, unlike iMessage. It also has many cool features, like audio calling and video chatting with AR masks, stickers, and even mobile payments. You can even play games through it with your contacts. Oh, and all of that's free.:::Facebook Messenger
Whatever your take on the social network of record, its messaging app is without equal. You don't need a phone number to use Facebook Messenger, you can use it on any device without the need for your phone to be present as it must with WhatsApp. It works on every platform, unlike iMessage. It also has many cool features, like audio calling and video chatting with AR masks, stickers, and even mobile payments. You can even play games through it with your contacts. Oh, and all of that's free.:::Messenger
Google's email app is a wonderful communication tool. Like our other Editors' Choice, Microsoft Outlook, it now lets you read mail accounts from Hotmail, Yahoo, and others via IMAP. It doesn't integrate your calendar the way Outlook for iPhone does, but Gmail does make your entire email database easier to deal with than the preinstalled Apple Mail app. It's smooth and fast, and even gives you five seconds to undo sending.:::Gmail
Many messaging apps require you to give up your phone number to those who you chat with, but Kik only requires a username. And with a bot store already boasting more than 6,000 bots, Kik beat Facebook Messenger and Skype to the punch in the field of artificial conversationalists. Group chat, photo and video sharing, and gaming add to this youth-focused app's appeal.:::Kik
Microsoft Outlook's light and flexible mobile email app supports nearly every email account you might have, includes an integrated calendar, and provides a Focused inbox that shows you only important messages. Frequently updated, the app includes an ancillary Apple Watch app and supports 3D Touch. Unlike the rest of Office Mobile, the Outlook iPhone app is totally free.:::Microsoft Outlook
Microsoft Outlook's light and flexible mobile email app supports nearly every email account you might have, includes an integrated calendar, and provides a Focused inbox that shows you only important messages. Frequently updated, the app includes an ancillary Apple Watch app and supports 3D Touch. Unlike the rest of Office Mobile, the Outlook iPhone app is totally free.:::Outlook
Skype is one of the best free communication tools for the iPhone. The app lets you make video calls and supports rich texting with animated emojis. A good selection of bots gets you info you can use as well as entertainment. As with other versions of Skype, you can call or chat with other Skype users at no charge, or buy credit to call any other phone number, landline, or mobile.:::Skype
Sexting and security worries aside, the visual chat app Snapchat can be a lot of fun to use—if you can figure out its very nonstandard interface. Snapchat should not be used as a private and secure messaging app. Rather, it's a simple app that you can use to swap funny, ephemeral visuals with your friends. Messages sent through Snapchat disappear from the receiver's phone after a short time. Snap a picture, draw or write on top of it if you like, choose the amount of time the recipient can see it, and send away. Just bear in mind that all digital media is reproducible.:::Snapchat
Spark sports a slick interface and organizes your email into logical categories like Personal, Newsletters, and Notifications, though you can switch to a more standard full inbox view if you like. It handles multiple accounts, but doesn't combine categories for them as Outlook does. The app is very configurable, with customizable swipe actions It also lets you pin improtant stuff and snooze emails to deal with later.:::Spark
Spark sports a slick interface and organizes your email into logical categories like Personal, Newsletters, and Notifications, though you can switch to a more standard full inbox view if you like. It handles multiple accounts, but doesn't combine categories for them as Outlook does. The app is very configurable, with customizable swipe actions It also lets you pin improtant stuff and snooze emails to deal with later.:::Spark Email
The ability to seamlessly transfer calls from mobile to desktop and vice versa was an early differentiator for Viber, which lets you exchange sticker-emblazoned texts as well as make calls and engage in video chats and calls to standard phones for free. And though it requires your phone number, it does encrypt communications.:::Viber
The ASL App is a free iPhone and iPad app specifically made for learning the basics of American Sign Language, and it's a welcome introduction. It uses videos to teach you the alphabet, various useful words and phrases, and the required gestures. The free version covers the basics, and in-app purchases add advanced material in 99-cent packs. $9.99 gets you everything the app offers.:::ASL App
People often forget that there's more than one way to find webpages, directions, videos, and photos on the Internet. There are actually plenty of good reasons to try out alternatives to market leader Google, and the Bing app for the iPhone shows several of them. Bing has a design that's gorgeous, clear, and simple to use. Feature-wise, Bing's app can keep up, and adds voice and camera input along with local info. What's more, the Bing app's home screen offers local guidance and news suggestions, rather than just a blank search box.:::Bing
Every college student is familiar with handing over several 100-dollar bills and lugging many pounds of textbooks from the campus store. Chegg's goal is to take some of the pain out of that process. The app lets you rent, buy, or sell books. The company offers study apps, too.:::Chegg Books
Could your learning a new language somehow add value to other people all over the world? It's a strange idea, but one that's playing out when you use the free language learning app Duolingo, which now has an iPhone app as well. As far as free, mobile apps for language-learning go, the Duolingo iPhone app is easily the best. A recent update makes your next lessons available offline, so you can continue learning even when you're not connected to the Internet.:::Doulingo
Half the fun of having a smartphone is looking things up when you're in the middle of a bar bet—and hopefully being right. Wikipedia is the go-to source for fact-checking in the mobile age, and the Wikipedia app usually returns results faster than a mobile search engine.:::Wikipedia
WolframAlpha is like a math and science version of Wikipedia. It's an outstanding source of knowledge and computation about virtually anything, from basic algebra to the depths of the universe. It's like a search engine for algebra, physics, engineering, and so much more—even nutritional information. As you might expect, the app requires an Internet connection to work.:::WolframAlpha
If you love anime (or live-action Asian TV), Crunchyroll is the ad-free streaming service for you. It offers tens of thousands of episodes, shows simulcast from overseas, and numerous services fans crave, including social interaction features. We do wish, however, that it had a Netflix-like recommendation feature.:::Crunchyroll
Downcast's iPhone app shines with excellent features, smart downloading options, and a great interface. It's worlds better than the stock Podcasts app from Apple. Downcast is suited for people who want a lot of control over their podcast listening experience, and it's that fine level of control that makes it our Editors' Choice. Downcast lets you customize not only how often the podcast catcher checks for new episodes, but also where you are when it does, using geo-fencing. For example: "Check for new episodes when I arrive at work.":::Downcast
These apps have been criticized in the past due to their lack of diagnostic accuracy. Here, we review the development of the SkinVision smartphone app, which has more than 900,000 users worldwide.:::SkinVision
The latest version of the SkinVision app (October 2018) has a 95% sensitivity (78% specificity) for detection of skin cancer. The current accuracy of the algorithm may warrant the use of this app as an aid by lay users or general practitioners.:::SkinVision
Early detection and surveillance of skin cancer could be more efficient with mobile health (mHealth) apps, which are easily accessible due to the ubiquity of smartphone usage. One example of a smartphone app for self-assessment of skin lesions for skin cancer is the SkinVision app:::SkinVision
SkinVision is a smartphone app built as a digital dermatology service for self-monitoring skin lesions. It was launched in 2011 and as of October 2018, it was on its fifth major version.:::SkinVision
The history of the SkinVision app service is shown in Table 1. It went through several upgrades throughout its history, modifying the camera, the algorithm and its evaluation, type of lesions analyzed, and communication of the algorithm result to its user.:::SkinVision
It achieved 80% sensitivity (78% specificity) after inclusion of user clinical information. Although in the Eindhoven study, only 233 lesions were used for calibration, in 2018, the SkinVision app assembled a training dataset of more than 130,000 images that were risk classified by a dermatologist from the app’s user database.:::SkinVision
App helps keep track of high and low glucose levels and what foods to eat. BeatO has tools to help manage high and low glucose levels. Provides basic educational material about food, and concerns users may have (e.g. things you should know about tattooing and diabetes). Can sync with daily devices including Fitbit.:::BeatO
AliveCor KardiaMobile is an event recorder that has been subject to various studies focusing on its accuracy. The device is an FDA-certified medical product that can record heart beat and rhythm by using a single-lead electrode.:::AliveCor KardiaMobile
MyFitnessPal features tracking of energy, macronutrients, and micronutrients (including sodium, calcium, iron, vitamin A, and vitamin C). Together with S Health, it has the most extensive nutrient output of all 5 apps. MyFitnessPal compares intake data with the US recommended daily allowance. Tracking for water (cups per day) and exercise is also available. The user can create foods or recipes if they are not available in MyFitnessPal’s database. Foods added by other users can also be selected for data entry:::MyFitnessPal
FatSecret reports energy, macronutrients, and micronutrients (only sodium). It allows the user to add exercise and to save their own meals and add foods not available in the FatSecret database. Recipes added by other users can also be selected. The app compares intake with the recommended intake for macronutrients only.:::FatSecret
Noom Coach reports only energy intake and compares it with the daily energy recommendation. In addition, exercise can be logged. Recipes can be saved onto the app for future use.::Noom Coach
Lose It! reports energy, macronutrients, and sodium. Similar to the other 4 apps, this app allows exercise to be logged. The app compares intake with the recommended intake. Foods or recipes can be created and shared if they are not available in Lose It!’s own database.:::Lose It!
Dietplan6 is a nutrition analysis software package for professional dietitians and nutritionists that we used as the reference method in this study. Dietplan6 reports energy, and all macronutrients and micronutrients. The nutrient composition of foods selected was the McCance and Widdowson’s The Composition of Foods, 6th edition:::Dietplan6
